Okay welcome to the Section 20 challenge for solution.
This is the challenge where we trying to determine whether a string is a palindrome using a stack in
a cube.
So before I go into the code let's talk about the process that we can use to do this.
Suppose we have a word like radar that's the string.
Obviously that is a palindrome.
What we can do is we can have a Q Over here we can have a stack over here.
We can take these letters and push them to the cue.
So it's going to be the are the A D the A and B are that's your we're putting them in.
So this is the front of the cue here and then we can take the same word and push it on the stack.
So in this case we've got our A D A R.
So I think you know what's happening now.
This is the top of the stack.
This is the front of the cue.
What we can do is we can take those elements and compare them.
If they're the same we can knock them off then we can go to the next one if they're the same we move
onto the next one.
And as you can see it's pretty easy right at the end we're done.
If everything matched we've got a palindrome.
So that's it.
Let's take a look at another example.
So let's say that the word is rear R E A R.
Obviously that is not a palindrome.
So we can have our cue over here and we can have our stack over here.
And what we do as well and q or so it's R E A R.
This is the front and then we're pushed onto the stack.
So again we'll say and I'll separate.
So make clear are e a r.
We'll look at the front of the cue and the top of the stack they match.
So we can get rid of those.
Then we'll look at the front of the cue top of the stack.
They don't match.
That's not a palindrome.
OK.
So that's it.
That's the solution it's pretty straightforward.
Now let's see how we do this in code.
Here is the function and walk you through it really quickly.
So what I'm doing here is a music arranged bass for loop to iterate over that string as has been passed
into me.
And for each character I'm checking is it an alpha character.
I'm not interested in anything else.
If it is I'm converting it to uppercase.
I'm pushing it on the cue and then pushing it on the stack.
That's it that's going to set up those two data structures so that I can process them easily now.
Now scroll up and there's the rest of the code you can see that I've got two variables here C1 and C2
that's where I'm reading the characters into.
And all I'm doing is while the queue is not empty I could have used the stack as well here.
Doesn't really matter because they both have the same number of elements.
So while the queue is not empty I'm assigning the front of the queue to see one and then I'm getting
rid of that character from the queue.
I'm assigning the top of the stack to see two and I'm popping off the stack then I'm comparing the two
characters.
If they're not the same I'm out.
It's not a palindrome.
When I finish this if I loop and everything is done enough got processed all the characters it must
be a palindrome.
I returned to that's it and will run it just to be its build and run.
And there you go.
Those are the results you can see the is true the A is true ABC here is false.
A bunch of these phrases are true and then obviously this is a palindrome and palindrome are not palindromes
so we get a false.
So that's it.
Now you can see a whole bunch of different ways to solve this pilot this palindrome problem.
We did it with a deck earlier.
We did it with the stack and a q now and there's other solutions as well.
So I hope you had fun doing this.
You can see that using stacks and cues and decks and all kinds of data structures are pretty fun actually.
All right so I'll see you in the next video.